['Avatar: The Last Airbender | Avatar Wiki | Fandom Join the quest! Share your opinion on the upcoming games!We want to hear from you! Sign In Regi', 'ster Avatar Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Latest news Avatar: Seven Havens City of Echoes', ' Netflix adaptation Ashes of the Academy Mystery of Penquan Island The Legend of Aang: The Last Airbender The Awakening of Roku Universe Characte', 'rs Main characters (Legend of Aang) Main characters (Legend of Korra) Water Tribe characters Earth Kingdom characters Fire Nation characters Air ', 'Nomad characters United Republic characters Bending Waterbending Earthbending Firebending Airbending Energybending Special techniques Locations W', 'ater Tribe Earth Kingdom Fire Nation Air temples Republic City Spirit World Organizations Team Avatar Team Avatar (Korra) Military of the world K', 'yoshi Warriors Air Acolytes Dai Li secret police Order of the White Lotus Red Lotus Equalists Flying Opera Company World of Avatar History timeli', 'ne Geographic overview Creatures Cooking Writing and calligraphy Arts and music Technology Political structure Society and culture Gender and sex', 'uality Media Legend of Aang Information Episodes Episode transcripts Comics Comic transcripts Print publications Video games Voice actors Product', 'ion crew Legend of Korra Information Episodes Episode transcripts Comics Comic transcripts Print publications Video games Voice actors Production', ' crew Graphic novels The Promise trilogy The Search trilogy The Rift trilogy Smoke and Shadow trilogy North and South trilogy Imbalance trilogy T', 'urf Wars trilogy Ruins of the Empire trilogy Graphic novel transcripts Books Chronicles of the Avatar The Rise of Kyoshi The Shadow of Kyoshi The', " Dawn of Yangchen The Legacy of Yangchen The Reckoning of Roku The Awakening of Roku City of Echoes Bending Academy Netflix's live action adaptat", 'ion Episodes Characters Cast Production crew The Last Airbender film Characters Transcript Cast Production crew Community About us Administrators', ' Site policies Report an issue Community notices Newsletter Manual of Style Editing guide How can I help? Discussions War Room forum Deletion dis', 'cussions Profile image changes Profile quote changes General discussions User of the month voting Featured article voting Featured fanon voting C', 'hatroom Discord rules Recent blog posts Fan fiction portal Fanon main page Fanon policy List of stories How to create your own Fanonbenders group', " Featured stories Fanart of the Month Fanon Awards Newsletter Affiliated sites Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Menu Explore More ", 'History Advertisement Skip to content Avatar Wiki 15,204pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts La', 'test news Avatar: Seven Havens City of Echoes Netflix adaptation Ashes of the Academy Mystery of Penquan Island The Legend of Aang: The Last Airb', 'ender The Awakening of Roku Universe Characters Main characters (Legend of Aang) Main characters (Legend of Korra) Water Tribe characters Earth K', 'ingdom characters Fire Nation characters Air Nomad characters United Republic characters Bending Waterbending Earthbending Firebending Airbending', ' Energybending Special techniques Locations Water Tribe Earth Kingdom Fire Nation Air temples Republic City Spirit World Organizations Team Avata', 'r Team Avatar (Korra) Military of the world Kyoshi Warriors Air Acolytes Dai Li secret police Order of the White Lotus Red Lotus Equalists Flying', ' Opera Company World of Avatar History timeline Geographic overview Creatures Cooking Writing and calligraphy Arts and music Technology Political', ' structure Society and culture Gender and sexuality Media Legend of Aang Information Episodes Episode transcripts Comics Comic transcripts Print ', 'publications Video games Voice actors Production crew Legend of Korra Information Episodes Episode transcripts Comics Comic transcripts Print pub', 'lications Video games Voice actors Production crew Graphic novels The Promise trilogy The Search trilogy The Rift trilogy Smoke and Shadow trilog', 'y North and South trilogy Imbalance trilogy Turf Wars trilogy Ruins of the Empire trilogy Graphic novel transcripts Books Chronicles of the Avata', 'r The Rise of Kyoshi The Shadow of Kyoshi The Dawn of Yangchen The Legacy of Yangchen The Reckoning of Roku The Awakening of Roku City of Echoes ', "Bending Academy Netflix's live action adaptation Episodes Characters Cast Production crew The Last Airbender film Characters Transcript Cast Prod", 'uction crew Community About us Administrators Site policies Report an issue Community notices Newsletter Manual of Style Editing guide How can I ', 'help? Discussions War Room forum Deletion discussions Profile image changes Profile quote changes General discussions User of the month voting Fe', 'atured article voting Featured fanon voting Chatroom Discord rules Recent blog posts Fan fiction portal Fanon main page Fanon policy List of stor', 'ies How to create your own Fanonbenders group Featured stories Fanart of the Month Fanon Awards Newsletter Affiliated sites Contents 1 Production', ' 1.1 Premise 2 Cultural influences 2.1 Avatar 2.2 Elements 2.3 Fighting styles 3 Characters 4 Series synopsis 4.1 Book One: Water (水) 4.2 Book Tw', 'o: Earth (土) 4.3 Book Three: Fire (火) 5 Response 5.1 Ratings 5.2 Awards and nominations 5.3 Anime or cartoon 6 Other media 6.1 Promotion and merc', 'handising 6.2 Feature film 6.3 Games 7 Trivia 8 References 9 See also 10 External links in: Protected, A to Z, Avatar Wiki, Real world English ال', 'عربية Deutsch Español Suomi Français עברית Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Avata', 'r: The Last Airbender 471 Edit Edit source History Purge Talk (35) The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon Cast and Crew InterviewAt SDCC we got to sit and', ' talk to the cast and crew of The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon. Norman Reedus (Daryl), Melissa McBride (Carol), David Zabel (Showrunner), Greg Nicot', 'ero (EP) and Scott M Gimple (The Walking Dead Universe Chief Content OfficerKeep WatchingNext video in 8 secondsMore Videos0 seconds of 8 minutes', ', 58 secondsVolume 0%Press shift question mark to access a list of keyboard shortcutsKeyboard ShortcutsEnabledDisabledShortcuts Open/Close/ or ?P', 'lay/PauseSPACEIncrease Volume↑Decrease Volume↓Seek Forward→Seek Backward←Captions On/OffcFullscreen/Exit FullscreenfMute/UnmutemDecrease Caption ', 'Size-Increase Caption Size+ or =Seek %0-9 0.5x1x1.25x1.5x2x Live00:0008:5808:58 This article is about the animated television series. For other s', 'imilar uses, see The Last Airbender (disambiguation). "Mike and I were really interested in other epic \'Legends & Lore\' properties, like Harry Po', 'tter and Lord of the Rings, but we knew that we wanted to take a different approach to that type of genre. Our love for Japanese Anime, Hong Kong', ' action & Kung Fu cinema, yoga, and Eastern philosophies led us to the initial inspiration for Avatar." — Bryan Konietzko about the creation of A', 'vatar: The Last Airbender.[1] Avatar: The Last Airbender General information Created by Michael Dante DiMartinoBryan Konietzko Written by Michael', " Dante DiMartinoBryan KonietzkoAaron EhaszJohn O'BryanJames EaganMatthew HubbardIan WilcoxNick MalisTim HedrickElizabeth Welch EhaszJoshua Hamilt", 'onKatie MattilaMay Chan Directed by Dave FiloniLauren MacMullanGiancarlo VolpeAnthony LioiEthan SpauldingJoaquim Dos SantosMichael Dante DiMartin', 'o Music by Jeremy ZuckermanBenjamin Wynn Episodes 61 (series completed) Production information Produced by Michael Dante DiMartino (executive)Bry', 'an Konietzko (executive)Aaron Ehasz (co-executive)Eric Coleman (executive for Nickelodeon)Jenna Luttrell (executive in-charge for Nickelodeon) Ra', 'ted TV-Y7-FV Channel Nickelodeon (2005-2008) Original run February 21, 2005 - July 19, 2008 Status Completed Chronology Followed by Republic City', ' HustleThe Legend of Korra Avatar: The Last Airbender, also known as Avatar: The Legend of Aang in some PAL regions, is an Emmy award-winning Ame', 'rican animated television series that aired for three seasons on Nickelodeon and the Nicktoons Network. The series was created and produced by Mi', 'chael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko, who served as executive producers along with Aaron Ehasz. Avatar is set in an Asian-influenced world o', 'f martial arts and elemental manipulation. The show drew on elements from East Asian, South Asian, and Western culture, making it a mixture of wh', 'at were previously traditionally separate categories of Japanese anime and Western domestic cartoons. The series follows the adventures of the ma', 'in protagonist Aang and his friends, who must save the world by defeating Fire Lord Ozai and ending the destructive war with the Fire Nation. The', ' show first aired on February 21, 2005 and the series concluded with a widely lauded two-hour television movie on July 19, 2008. The show is avai', 'lable for purchase on DVD, Blu-ray, the iTunes Store, the Xbox Live Marketplace, the PlayStation Network, Amazon and YouTube. It is also availabl', 'e on streaming platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, the Nick website, and Paramount Global owned streaming platform, Paramount+. The sh', "ow is occasionally aired on Nickelodeon's spinoff network, Nicktoons. Avatar: The Last Airbender was popular with both audiences and critics, gar", 'nering 5.6 million viewers on its best-rated showing and receiving high ratings in the Nicktoons lineup, even outside its 6–11-year-old demograph', 'ic. Avatar has been nominated for and won awards from the Annual Annie Awards, the Genesis Awards, and the primetime Emmy Awards, among others. T', "he first season's success prompted Nickelodeon to order second and third seasons. The first part of a planned movie trilogy titled The Last Airbe", 'nder was released on July 1, 2010, and a live-action reimagining produced by Netflix in partnership with Nickelodeon was released on February 22,', ' 2024. Merchandise based on the series includes scaled action figures, a trading card game, three video games based individually on each season, ', "stuffed animals distributed by Paramount Parks, and two LEGO sets. The series' popularity spawned a sequel series, titled The Legend of Korra, wh", 'ich takes place seventy years after the original series. Contents 1 Production 1.1 Premise 2 Cultural influences 2.1 Avatar 2.2 Elements 2.3 Figh', 'ting styles 3 Characters 4 Series synopsis 4.1 Book One: Water (水) 4.2 Book Two: Earth (土) 4.3 Book Three: Fire (火) 5 Response 5.1 Ratings 5.2 Aw', 'ards and nominations 5.3 Anime or cartoon 6 Other media 6.1 Promotion and merchandising 6.2 Feature film 6.3 Games 7 Trivia 8 References 9 See al', 'so 10 External links Production[] The idea for Avatar: The Last Airbender grew out of some concept art drawn by Bryan Konietzko. Michael Dante Di', 'Martino and Bryan Konietzko began work on the series at Nickelodeon Animation Studios in Burbank, California. According to Bryan Konietzko, the p', 'rogram was conceived in the spring of 2001 when he took an old sketch of a balding, middle-aged man and re-imagined the character as a child. Kon', 'ietzko drew the character herding bison in the sky and showed the sketch to Mike DiMartino. At the time, DiMartino was studying a documentary abo', 'ut explorers trapped in the South Pole. "We thought, \'There\'s an air guy along with these water people trapped in a snowy wasteland ... and maybe', ' some fire people are pressing down on them ...\'" ―Konietzko describing their early development of the concept. The co-creators successfully pitc', 'hed the idea to Nickelodeon VP and executive producer Eric Coleman just two weeks later. The show was first revealed to the public in a teaser re', 'el at San Diego Comic-Con International 2004 and aired February 21, 2005. In the United States, the first two episodes of the series were shown t', 'ogether in a one-hour premiere event. A second twenty-episode season ran from March 17, 2006 through December 1. A third and final season, beginn', 'ing September 21, 2007, featured twenty-one episodes rather than the usual twenty. The final four episodes were packaged as a two-hour movie. Pre', 'mise[] The series takes place in a world where civilization is divided into four nations, each country having their own corresponding element and', ' characteristics. Avatar: The Last Airbender takes place in a fantasy world that is home to humans, fantastic animals, and spirits. Human civiliz', 'ation is divided into four nations: the Water Tribes, the Earth Kingdom, the Fire Nation, and the Air Nomads. Each nation has its own natural ele', 'ment, on which it bases its society, and within each nation exist people known as "benders" who have the innate power and ability to control and ', "manipulate the eponymous element of their nation. The show's creators assigned each bending art its own style of martial arts, causing it to inhe", 'rit the advantages and weaknesses of the martial arts it was assigned. The four types of bending arts are waterbending, earthbending, firebending', ', and airbending. Each generation yields one person who is capable of controlling and manipulating all four elements, the Avatar. When an Avatar ', 'dies, they are reincarnated into the next nation in the Avatar Cycle. The Avatar Cycle parallels the seasons: autumn for the Air Nomads, winter f', 'or the Water Tribe, spring for the Earth Kingdom and summer for the Fire Nation. Legend holds the Avatar must master each bending art in order, s', 'tarting with his or her native element. This can sometimes be compromised when the situation requires it, as Aang demonstrates in the show. For t', 'he Avatar, learning to bend the element opposite his native element can be extremely challenging and difficult. This is because opposing bending ', 'arts are based on opposing fighting styles and disciplines. Firebending and waterbending are opposites, as are earthbending and airbending. The A', 'vatar possesses a unique power and ability called the Avatar State; a defense mechanism which endows the Avatar with all of the knowledge, powers', ' and abilities of all of the past Avatars and acts as a self-triggering defense mechanism, although it can be made subject to the will if the use', 'r opens his bodily chakras. If an Avatar is killed in the Avatar State, the reincarnation cycle will be broken, and the Avatar will cease to exis', 't. Through the ages, countless incarnations of the Avatar have served to keep the four nations in harmony and maintain world peace and order. The', ' Avatar also serves as the bridge between the physical world and the Spirit World, allowing him or her to solve problems that normal benders cann', 'ot. Another ability that nobody but the Avatar can do is energybending, which Aang demonstrates in the fight with Fire Lord Ozai at Wulong Forest', '. Cultural influences[] Main article: Influences on the Avatar franchise Writing implements as depicted in the series had notable eastern influen', "ces. Avatar is notable for borrowing extensively from Asian art and mythology to create its fictional universe. The show's character designs are ", 'influenced by both American cartoons and anime; the show, however, is not considered an "anime" because of its origination in the United States. ', 'Explicitly stated influences include Chinese art and history, Korean clothing and folk tales, Japanese anime, Hinduism, Taoism, Buddhism, and yog', 'a. The production staff employed a cultural consultant, Edwin Zane, to review scripts. Traditional East Asian calligraphy styles are used for nea', 'rly all the writing in the show. For each instance of calligraphy, an appropriate style is used, ranging from seal script (more archaic) to cleri', 'cal script. The show employs calligrapher Siu-Leung Lee as a consultant and translator. The choreographed martial art bending moves were profound', 'ly affected by Asian cinema. Western film series such as Star Wars, and literature series such as Harry Potter and The Lord of the Rings, were a ', 'heavy influence in developing the story of Avatar. In an interview, the creators revealed that they wanted to tell their own epic "legend & love ', 'story". Avatar[] The term "Avatar" comes from the Sanskrit word Avatāra, which means "descent". In Hinduism, the gods manifest themselves into Av', "atars to restore balance on earth, usually during a period of great evil. The Chinese characters that appear at the top of the show's title card ", 'mean "the divine spiritual medium who has descended upon the mortal world". When Aang was young, he unknowingly revealed that he was the Avatar w', 'hen he chose four toys out of thousands, each of which were the childhood toys of the previous Avatars. In Tibetan Buddhism, there is a similar t', 'est for reincarnations of a Tulku Lama. In Magic and Mystery in Tibet, Alexandra David-Neel writes that "a number of objects such as rosaries, ri', 'tualistic implements, books, tea-cups, etc., are placed together, and the child must pick out those which belonged to the late tulku, thus showin', 'g that he recognizes the things which were theirs in their previous life". Each successor is expected to show signs of continuity with the previo', "us Avatar, such as being born within a week of the previous Avatar's death. Elements[] Avatar draws on the four classical elements common to most", ' ancient philosophies, rather than the five classical Chinese elements, for its bending arts: water, earth, fire and air. Although each has its o', 'wn variation, most ancient philosophies incorporate these four elements in some way: examples include the classical Hindu, Buddhist, Greek and Ja', 'panese elemental traditions. Fighting styles[] The fighting choreography of the show draws from martial arts; the fighting styles and weaponry ar', 'e based on Chinese martial arts, with each bending art corresponding to a certain real-world style. The creators referred to Baguazhang for airbe', 'nding, Hung Gar for earthbending, Northern Shaolin for firebending, and Tai Chi for waterbending. The only exception to this is Toph, who employs', ' a Chu Gar Southern Praying Mantis style. The series employed Sifu Kisu of the Harmonious Fist Chinese Athletic Association as a martial arts con', 'sultant. Characters[] Aang (Zachary Tyler Eisen) is the fun-loving, 112-year-old protagonist of the series, who is biologically twelve years old ', 'but was frozen in an iceberg for one hundred years. He is the current incarnation of the Avatar, the spirit of the world manifested into human fo', 'rm, whose duty is to maintain balance among the nations of the world. Aang is a reluctant hero, who would prefer adventure over his job as the Av', 'atar and making friends over fighting the Fire Nation. Katara (Mae Whitman) is a fourteen-year-old female waterbender of the Southern Water Tribe', ', the only waterbender in the tribe. Katara discovers and frees Aang from an iceberg in which he had been trapped for a hundred years. With her f', 'ifteen-year-old brother Sokka, she accompanies Aang on his quest to defeat the Fire Lord and bring peace to the world. In the original unaired pi', 'lot episode, Katara was known as Kya; this name was later used for her mother. The main members of Team Avatar engage in a group hug: Zuko, Toph,', ' Katara, Aang, Sokka, and Suki (clockwise from top). Sokka (Jack DeSena) is a fifteen-year-old warrior of the Southern Water Tribe. With his sist', 'er Katara, he accompanies Aang on his quest to defeat the Fire Lord. The joker of the group, Sokka describes himself as "meat-loving" and "sarcas', 'tic". Unlike his companions, Sokka cannot bend an element, but the series, though it often makes him the victim of comedy at his expense, frequen', 'tly grants him opportunities to use his ingenuity and weapons, including his trusty boomerang, a battle club, and a sword he forged from a meteor', 'ite. Toph Beifong (Jessie Flower) is a twelve-year-old blind earthbender. In Book Two, she leaves her wealthy family and comfortable home to join', ' Aang on his quest, with a plan to teach him earthbending. Though blind, Toph "sees" by feeling the vibrations in the ground through her feet. Sh', 'e becomes the first earthbender to learn to bend metal and is considered one of the most powerful earthbenders in the world. Zuko (Dante Basco) i', "s the sixteen-year-old exiled prince of the Fire Nation and a major antagonist in the series. Due to events in Zuko's past, his father, Fire Lord", ' Ozai, deems him a complete failure, and Zuko feels he must capture the Avatar to regain his honor. Over time, Zuko struggles to deal with his an', 'ger, self-pity, and familial relationships; meanwhile, he grows sympathetic to the peoples his nation has terrorized. In Book Three, he defects f', 'rom the Fire Nation and joins Aang and the team in order to teach Aang firebending. At the end of the series, he is crowned ruler of the Fire Nat', "ion. Appa (Dee Bradley Baker) is Aang's pet flying bison and best friend, who was frozen alongside him in the iceberg. Appa serves as Team Avatar", "'s main mode of transportation, carrying them on his saddle during flight. Despite his outward simplistic behavior, Appa is a lot more intelligen", 't and emotionally complex than he initially appears to be, and is fiercely protective of and loyal to those he considers his friends. Momo (Dee B', "radley Baker) is Aang's other pet, a curious and lively winged lemur who is found and adopted by Team Avatar at the Southern Air Temple. Momo oft", "en perches on Aang's shoulder and accompanies the young Avatar almost everywhere, and he provides much of the series' comic relief. Suki (Jennie ", "Kwan) is the leader of the Kyoshi Warriors and the last to join Aang's quest. Introduced early and briefly at her home on Kyoshi Island, she is s", 'een twice again in Book Two, before permanently joining Team Avatar after Sokka and Zuko rescue her from a Fire Nation prison in Book Three. Like', ' Sokka, she is not a bender but is quite capable of handling herself in a fight with sword, war fan, and acrobatic skills. By the end of the seri', 'es, she is the love interest of Sokka. Iroh (Mako in Books One and Two, Greg Baldwin in Book Three) is a retired Fire Nation general, known as th', "e Dragon of the West, and Prince Zuko's uncle and mentor. Iroh lost his son Lu Ten in the war, after which he came back to the Fire Nation, where", " he was the original heir to the throne until his brother usurped the throne after Fire Lord Azulon's death. On the surface, Iroh is a cheerful, ", 'kind, and optimistically eccentric old man, but he still remains a competent warrior and a devoted surrogate parent to Zuko. Iroh is a Grand Mast', 'er of the Order of the White Lotus, a secret society of men from all nations and helps retake Ba Sing Se from the Fire Nation during the series f', 'inale. Unlike most firebenders, Iroh does not use fury as the source of his strength; instead he uses the original firebending skills learned fro', 'm the dragons. He too, is one of the few firebenders with the rare ability to generate lightning and redirect it as well (a technique he develope', "d himself). Azula (Grey DeLisle) is the fourteen-year-old princess of the Fire Nation, Zuko's younger sister and a major antagonist in the series", '. Azula is a firebending prodigy and is one of the few living firebenders capable of summoning lightning. She has no qualms about bullying and th', 'reatening her relatives, reserving any familial loyalty for her father. She is first introduced at the end of Book One, although she appears in t', "he background in an earlier episode. Mai (Cricket Leigh) is a stoic and impassive noblegirl who is one of Azula's childhood best friends and a ma", 'ster at throwing knives and stilettos. She is recruited by Azula in Book Two alongside Ty Lee to help her hunt down the Avatar, Iroh, and Zuko, b', "ecoming the latter's love interest upon his return to the Fire Nation in Book Three. Ty Lee (Olivia Hack) is a cheerful and bubbly circus acrobat", " who is one of Azula's childhood best friends and a martial artist skilled in the use of chi-blocking. Along with Mai, Ty Lee is recruited by Azu", 'la in Book Two to help capture her enemies. Ozai (Mark Hamill) is the tyrannical ruler of the Fire Nation during the final years of the Hundred Y', 'ear War and the main antagonist of the series. Like every Fire Lord before him, Ozai is a firebending master, and prior to the ending of the War,', ' he is believed to be one of the most powerful firebenders in the World. Ozai is willing to go to any lengths to achieve his goal of world domina', 'tion, even sacrificing his own people and committing genocide. Zhao (Jason Isaacs) is the leader of the Fire Nation Navy and the secondary antago', 'nist of Book One. He is a master firebender and one of the most powerful men in the Fire Nation. Zhao seeks to become a Fire Nation hero and go d', "own in his nation's history as a legend. To achieve this end, Zhao will go to any lengths, even killing a spirit. Long Feng (Clancy Brown) is the", " Grand Secretariat of Ba Sing Se, the leader of the Dai Li, and the secondary antagonist of Book Two. As Earth King Kuei's closest personal advis", "er, Long Feng hid the Hundred Year War's existence outside the Earth Kingdom city's walls while the Dai Li supplanted the king's power over his p", 'eople. Long Feng will go to any lengths to maintain his control over Ba Sing Se including, but not limited to, blackmail, brainwashing, and kidna', 'pping. Series synopsis[] One hundred years before the start of the series, a twelve year old airbender named Aang learns that he is the new Avata', 'r. Fearful of the heavy responsibilities of stopping an impending world war and with the impending separation from his mentor, Monk Gyatso, Aang ', "flees from home on his flying bison, Appa. During a fierce storm, they crash into the ocean, and Aang's Avatar State freezes them in a state of s", 'uspended animation inside an iceberg. Book One: Water (水)[] Main article: Book One: Water Aang is discovered by Katara and Sokka. Aang and Appa a', 're awoken a hundred years later by two siblings of Southern Water Tribe origin, Katara and Sokka. Aang learns that the Fire Nation started a war ', "a hundred years earlier, just after his disappearance. The Fire Nation's opening move in its campaign for global conquest was to launch a genocid", 'al attack on the Air Nomads which drove Aang\'s entire race to extinction, thus making him "the last airbender" left alive. He realizes that he mu', 'st fulfill his destiny of becoming a fully realized Avatar and return balance to the world by defeating the Fire Nation. Aang sets out to master ', 'the three unlearned elements: water, earth, and fire. With Katara and Sokka, Aang decides to head first to the North Pole to find a waterbending ', "master. Aang soon discovers that Sozin's Comet, which Fire Lord Sozin used as a power supply to start the Hundred Year War, will return in the co", 'ming summer, giving the Fire Nation enough power to ultimately accomplish victory. Aang realizes that he must master all four elements and end th', 'e War before this time. For most of their journey to the North Pole, the group is pursued by Zuko, a banished Fire Nation prince and son of Fire ', 'Lord Ozai who is obsessed with capturing Aang to restore his lost honor. Book Two: Earth (土)[] Main article: Book Two: Earth Team Avatar appears ', 'before the Earth King. After leaving the North Pole and mastering waterbending, Aang travels to the Earth Kingdom to master earthbending. There, ', "the group meets Toph, a blind earthbending prodigy who becomes Aang's second teacher. The heroes discover information about an upcoming solar ecl", 'ipse which would leave the Fire Nation powerless and open to invasion. They struggle to reach the Earth King with this vital information, but are', " detoured by Appa's kidnapping. The psychologically self-tormented Zuko, his sister Azula, and her two friends Mai and Ty Lee chase the group as ", 'they struggle to reach Ba Sing Se. Azula engineers a coup from within that topples the Earth King and destroys any hope of a large-scale invasion', ' of the Fire Nation. Book Three: Fire (火)[] Main article: Book Three: Fire Zuko reveals his desire to join Team Avatar. The group recovers from t', "he fall of Ba Sing Se and travels to the planned invasion site. On the day of the solar eclipse, Aang's group and a smaller band of warriors laun", 'ch a smaller invasion, which ultimately fails. Zuko confronts his father and defects from the Fire Nation. After a series of events, he manages t', "o gain the trust of the protagonists and becomes Aang's firebending teacher. Aang and Zuko unlock the true secrets of firebending from the ancien", 't "Sun Warriors", Sokka and Zuko later travel to a Fire Nation prison called the Boiling Rock to rescue Sokka\'s father and Suki, a warrior from K', "yoshi Island. On the day of Sozin's Comet, Fire Lord Ozai harnesses the comet's incredible power and energy to start a genocidal campaign to dest", 'roy the rest of the world. Aang and his friends split up to face the self-proclaimed Phoenix King Ozai, Azula (about to be crowned as the new Fir', 'e Lord), and the Fire Nation air fleet accompanying Ozai. Aang confronts and defeats Ozai. Zuko and Katara defeat Azula before her coronation. So', 'kka, Toph, and Suki destroy the air fleet. Zuko becomes the new Fire Lord and promises to help the world rebuild from one hundred years of war an', 'd suffering. Response[] Ratings[] When the show debuted, it was rated the best animated television series in its demographic; new episodes averag', 'ed 1.1 million viewers each.[2] A one-hour special showing of "The Secret of the Fire Nation" which aired on September 15, 2006, consisting of "T', 'he Serpent\'s Pass" and "The Drill", gathered an audience of 4.1 million viewers. According to Nielsen Media Research, the special was the best pe', 'rforming cable television show airing in that week.[3] In 2007, Avatar was syndicated to more than 105 countries worldwide and was one of Nickelo', "deon's top rated programs. The series was ranked first on Nickelodeon in Germany, Indonesia, Malaysia, Belgium, and Colombia. The series finale, ", '"Sozin\'s Comet", received the highest ratings of the series. Its July 19, 2008 premiere averaged 5.6 million viewers, 95% more viewers than Nicke', 'lodeon had received in mid-July 2007.[4] During the week of July 14, it ranked as the most-viewed program for the under-14 demographic. "Sozin\'s ', 'Comet" also appeared on iTunes\' top ten list of best-selling television episodes during that same week. The popularity of "Sozin\'s Comet" affecte', 'd online media as well; Rise of the Phoenix King a Nick.com online game based on "Sozin\'s Comet", generated almost 815,000 game plays within thre', 'e days.[5] The average tomatometer score of Avatar: The Last Airbender is 100%, with an average audience review of 98%.[6] IMDb gives the series ', 'a rating of 9.3/10.[7] Awards and nominations[] Awards Outcome 2005 Pulcinella Awards Best Action/Adventure TV Series Won[8] Best TV Series Won[8', '] 33rd Annie Awards Best Animated Television Production Nominated[9] Storyboarding in an Animated Television Production ("The Deserter") Won[9] W', 'riting for an Animated Television Production ("The Fortuneteller") Nominated[9] 34th Annie Awards Character Animation in a Television Production ', '("The Blind Bandit") Won[10] Directing in an Animated Television Production ("The Drill") Won[10] 36th Annie Awards Best Animated Television Prod', 'uction for Children Won[11] Directing in an Animated Television Production (Joaquim Dos Santos for "Into the Inferno") Won[11] 2007 Genesis Award', 's Outstanding Children\'s Programming ("Appa\'s Lost Days") Won[12] Primetime Emmy Awards Outstanding Animated Program ("City of Walls and Secrets"', ') Nominated[13] Individual Achievement Award (Sang-Jin Kim for "Lake Laogai") Won[14] Nickelodeon Kid\'s Choice Awards 2008 Favorite Cartoon Won[1', '5] Annecy 2008 TV series (Joaquim Dos Santos for "The Day of Black Sun, Part 2: The Eclipse") Nominated[16] 56th Golden Reel Awards Best Sound Ed', 'iting in a Television Animation ("Avatar Aang") Nominated[17] 2009 Peabody Award Unusually complex characters and healthy respect for the consequ', 'ences of warfare. Won[18] Anime or cartoon[] Main article: Influences on the Avatar franchise#Anime The debate over Avatar being considered an an', 'ime is a controversial one; one reviewer commented that "Avatar blurs the line between anime and (US) domestic cartoons until it becomes irreleva', 'nt".[19] Avatar has many features typical of anime, such as a color palette distinctive from most American cartoons. "The best anime balances gre', 'at action sequences with humor and emotion, something we try to do on Avatar. We love all the films of Hayao Miyazaki, especially Spirited Away a', 'nd Princess Mononoke. Both movies deal with spirituality and the environment in an entertaining way. Also, there\'s a lot of great animation." ―Av', 'atar creators Bryan Konietzko and Michael Dante DiMartino confirming a particular anime influence in a magazine interview. According to an interv', "iew with the artists of Avatar, Appa's design was based on the Catbus in My Neighbor Totoro, due to the peculiar task of creating a mammal with s", "ix legs.[20] Avatar draws inspiration from Shinichiro Watanabe's Cowboy Bebop and Samurai Champloo, as well as FLCL (Fooly Cooly) of Gainax.[21] ", 'Other various studios from which inspiration was drawn include Studio 4\xa0°C, Production I.G, and Studio Ghibli. Bryan has commented that some of h', 'is most cherished Watanabe fight scenes were the fight between Bebop\'s Spike Spiegel and a drug smuggler in "Asteroid Blues" as well as the duel ', 'between Mugen and a blind female Jojutsu-user in the Champloo episode "Elegy of Entrapment (Verse 2)". Avatar director Giancarlo Volpe also claim', 's the staff "were all ordered to buy FLCL and watch every single episode of it". Other media[] Promotion and merchandising[] See also: Merchandis', "e Avatar's success has led to some promotional advertising with third-party companies, such as Burger King and Upper Deck Entertainment. Avatar-t", "hemed roller coasters at Kings Island and at Nickelodeon Universe in the Mall of America also appeared. During the show's runtime, Nickelodeon pu", 'blished two special issues of Nick Mag Presents dedicated entirely to the show. Various members of the Avatar staff and cast appeared at the 2006', ' San Diego Comic-Con International convention, while Michael Dante DiMartino and Bryan Konietzko appeared with Martial Arts Consultant Sifu Kisu ', 'at the Pacific Media Expo on October 28, 2006. Avatar also has its own line of T-shirts, LEGO playsets, toys, a trading card game, a cine-manga, ', 'and three video games. Also in September; Legends of the Arena, an MMO, was released online. The Mattel-produced action figure toy line generated', " some controversy with its exclusion of any female characters. Mattel came to release information stating that they have taken account of Katara'", 's increased role within the program, and that she would be included in the figure assortment for a mid-2007 release. The figure ultimately went u', 'nreleased, however, as the entire line was canceled before she could be produced. Nickelodeon executives have since released optimistic plans for', ' upcoming marketing strategies in regards to Avatar. Nickelodeon President Cyma Zarghami openly stated his belief that the franchise "could becom', 'e their Harry Potter". They expected consumers to spend about $121 million in 2007, rising to $254 million by 2009. The marketing plans were to b', 'e coincided with the release of the first live-action film based on the series in 2010, which was to be the first film in a trilogy. Feature film', '[] Main article: Film:The Last Airbender The promotional poster for The Last Airbender features Aang and Zuko. On January 8, 2007, Paramount Pict', "ures' MTV Films and Nickelodeon Movies announced that they signed M. Night Shyamalan to write, direct, and produce a trilogy of live-action films", " based on the series; the first of these films encompasses the main characters' adventures in Book One. The film was in a dispute with James Came", "ron's film Avatar regarding title ownership, which resulted in the film being titled The Last Airbender. It was released on July 1, 2010. Shyamal", 'an was attracted to the series because of its inspiring martial arts and spiritual theme, after being introduced to the program by his children. ', 'Filming began in March 2009 and take place in Philadelphia and Greenland. Producer Frank Marshall stated the film may be moved to later in 2010 o', 'r even to early 2011, and that some filming could happen in the Far East. According to an interview with the co-creators in SFX Magazine, Shyamal', 'an came across Avatar when his daughter wanted to be Katara for Halloween. Intrigued, Shyamalan researched and watched the series with his family', '. "Watching Avatar has become a family event in my house ... so we are looking forward to how the story develops in season three," said Shyamalan', '. "Once I saw the amazing world that Mike and Bryan created, I knew it would make a great feature film." Avatar co-creators Mike DiMartino and Br', 'yan Konietzko voiced their opinion within an interview regarding M. Night Shyamalan writing, directing and producing the film. The two displayed ', "much enthusiasm over Shyamalan's decision for the adaptation, stating that they admire his work and, in turn, he respects their material. M. Nigh", "t Shyamalan said he will write the second film while preparing to shoot the first. James Newton Howard, who had composed all of Shyamalan's films", ' since The Sixth Sense, composed The Last Airbender. Shyamalan originally offered the roles of Aang to karate-trained Texan Noah Ringer; Sokka to', ' Jackson Rathbone; Katara to Nicola Peltz; and Prince Zuko to Jesse McCartney. The casting of white actors triggered negative fan reaction marked', ' by accusations of racism, a letter-writing campaign, and a protest outside of a Philadelphia casting call for movie extras. Rathbone dismissed t', 'he complaints, saying "I think it\'s one of those things where I pull my hair up, shave the sides, and I definitely need a tan. It\'s one of those ', 'things where, hopefully, the audience will suspend disbelief a little bit." In February 2009, Dev Patel replaced McCartney, whose tour dates conf', 'licted with a boot camp scheduled for the cast to train in martial arts. Aasif Mandvi plays Commander Zhao, Shaun Toub plays Uncle Iroh, Cliff Cu', 'rtis plays Fire Lord Ozai, and Keong Sim plays the earthbending father. Games[] See also: List of Avatar games A video game trilogy about Avatar ', 'has been created: Avatar: The Last Airbender, the video game, was released on October 10, 2006; Avatar: The Last Airbender – The Burning Earth wa', 's released on October 16, 2007, and Avatar: The Last Airbender – Into the Inferno was released on October 13, 2008. The three games were loosely ', 'based on seasons one, two and three, respectively. Players can select characters and complete quests to gain experience and advance the storyline', ". Despite lackluster critical reviews, the games did extremely well commercially; for example, Avatar: The Last Airbender was THQ's top selling N", 'ickelodeon game in 2006 and even reached Sony CEA\'s "Greatest Hits" status. Legends of the Arena, a video game for Microsoft Windows launched on ', 'September 25, 2008 by Nickelodeon. Each user is able to create their own character, choose a nation, and interact with others across the globe. T', 'rivia[] Avatar Wiki has3 imagesrelated to Avatar:The Last Airbender. All three books of the series begin on a vessel of some type: Sokka and Kata', 'ra are first seen ice fishing in "The Boy in the Iceberg"; a cutter sailing ship carrying Master Pakku and Team Avatar is first seen in "The Avat', 'ar State"; and Aang is first seen regaining consciousness aboard a Fire Nation cruiser in "The Awakening". Giancarlo Volpe has stated that the pr', 'oduction had to change the title of the show from Avatar to Avatar: The Last Airbender in 2004, as James Cameron already held the rights for the ', "first name.[22] References[] ↑ Vasconcellos, Eduardo (September 6, 2007). Interview: Avatar's Bryan Konietzko and Michael Dante DiMartino. IGN. R", 'etrieved on July 21, 2014. ↑ Bynum, Aaron H. (June 30, 2006). Avatar: Season III. Animation Insider. Archived from the original on February 7, 20', '07. Retrieved on March 3, 2022. ↑ Bynum, Aaron H. (September 20, 2006). Nick: "Secret of the Fire Nation" Ratings. Animation Insider. Archived fr', "om the original on February 7, 2012. Retrieved on March 3, 2022. ↑ Nickelodeon's Avatar: The Last Airbender Hits All-Time Series High. News Blaze", " (July 22, 2008). Archived from the original on February 6, 2013. Retrieved on March 3, 2022. ↑ Ball, Ryan (July 23, 2008). Nick's Avatar Hits Ra", 'tings High. Animation Magazine. Archived from the original on July 28, 2008. Retrieved on March 3, 2022. ↑ Avatar: The Last Airbender - Rotten To', 'matoes. Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved on July 3, 2022. ↑ Avatar: The Last Airbender on IMDb. IMDb. Retrieved on July 3, 2022. ↑ Jump up to: 8.0 8.1 ', 'Ball, Ryan (May 3, 2005). Cartoons on the Bay Picks Winners. Animation Magazine. Archived from the original on December 11, 2007. Retrieved on Ma', 'rch 4, 2022. ↑ Jump up to: 9.0 9.1 9.2 Legacy: 33rd Annual Annie Award Nominees and Winners (2005). Annie Awards. Archived from the original on M', 'ay 17, 2008. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ Jump up to: 10.0 10.1 Legacy: 34th Annual Annie Award Nominees and Winners (2006). Annie Awards. Archi', 'ved from the original on June 2, 2008. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ Jump up to: 11.0 11.1 2008 Annie Award Nominations by Category. Annie Awards', '. Archived from the original on December 2, 2008. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ DeMott, Rick (April 3, 2007). Simpsons, Avatar & Happy Feet Big W', 'inners in Genesis Awards. Animation World Network. Archived from the original on February 5, 2017. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ 59th Primetime E', 'mmys Nominees and Winners. Television Academy. Archived from the original on July 1, 2015. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ Desowitz, Bill (August 2', '1, 2007). Juried Emmy Awards Announced for Individual Achievement in Animation. Animation World Network. Archived from the original on September ', '29, 2017. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ 2008 KCA Winners Release. Nick KCA Press. Archived from the original on April 14, 2008. Retrieved on Marc', 'h 4, 2022. ↑ HOME\xa0FESTIVAL FESTIVAL 2008 OFFICIAL SELECTION. Annecy. Archived from the original on November 13, 2008. Retrieved on March 4, 2022.', " ↑ MPSE'S 2009 GOLDEN REEL AWARDS NOMINEES. Motion Picture Editors Guild. Archived from the original on June 29, 2009. Retrieved on March 4, 2022", '. ↑ Winner 2008 | Nickelodeon. Archived from the original on November 20, 2014. Retrieved on March 4, 2022. ↑ Robinson, Tasha (2006-03-07). Avata', 'r: The Last Airbender. Sci-Fi Today. Retrieved on May 28, 2014. ↑ Avatar: The Last Airbender—The Art of the Animated Series, page 20. ↑ Basco, Da', 'nte (host), Varney, Janet (host), DiMartino, Michael Dante (guest), Konietzko, Bryan (guest). (June 25, 2021). "Origin Stories with Mike DiMartin', 'o and Bryan Konietzko Pt. 1". Avatar: Braving the Elements. Episode 2. iHeartRadio. ↑ Giancarlo Volpe\'s Twitter. Twitter (December 4, 2022). Retr', 'ieved on January 6, 2022. See also[] Influences on the Avatar franchise The graphic novels bridging the seventy years between Avatar: The Last Ai', 'rbender and The Legend of Korra External links[] Official Nick.com website Official Facebook page IMDb page TV.com page Categories Categories: Pr', 'otected A to Z Avatar Wiki Real world Add category Cancel Save [Configure Reference Popups] Languages العربية Deutsch Español Suomi Français עברי', 'ת Bahasa Indonesia Italiano Nederlands Polski Português do Brasil Русский Українська Tiếng Việt 中文 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA ', 'unless otherwise noted.\tRelated DiscussionsWho’s the most agile?IcedTofficialWho had it worseIcedTofficialWho’s the strongest earthbender in the ', 'verse?IcedTofficialView more posts More Fandoms Fantasy 471 CommentsJoin the conversationSign in to read what others are saying and share your th', "oughts.SIGN INDon't have account? Register now Advertisement Live! Chat – Discord+95Join the ChatRecent ImagesMula2 days agoChin3 days agoAvatar:", ' The Last Airbender: Relics of the Four Nations8/21/2025 Advertisement Community corner Current discussions Current user of the month nominations', ' - September 2025 Current profile image change proposals Turtle duck (August 28) Polar bear dog (August 28) Cat owl (August 28) Bosco (August 28)', ' Goat dog (August 27) Current profile quote change proposals Current featured articles nominations Unagi (August 11) Current featured fanon nomin', 'ations - September 2025 Current votes for deletion Era of the Avatar (August 26) Current Improvement Article of the Week Unfamiliar with our guid', 'elines and policies? Visit this page. Unsure where to start? Check this page Need to report an issue? Do so here Reading up on current news and i', 'ssues? See our community newsletter. Administrators are marked by gold links. See all notices • Community corner Want to help out? Community to-d', 'o list Category:Needs help — generally, the pages listed in this category are pages that could do with a massive rewrite to be in line with this ', "wiki's Manual of Style. Category:Under construction — this is a collection of pages that still await completion. There is still information missi", 'ng, so feel free to elaborate and finish the page to make sure that all the details are accounted for. Category:Articles with unsourced informati', 'on — pages in this category are lacking proper citations to be in line with our verifiability policy, so please add any and all reliable, publish', 'ed sources to help remedy that situation. Improvement Article of the Week — The chosen article will have a grammar review, missing information wi', 'll be added, correction of page structure, adding images when needed, etc. The goal is to make significant improvements but remember that quality', ', and not quantity, is what matters. Transcript pages — several episode and comic transcripts could do with additional scene description, and som', "e comics don't even have a transcript yet. Chronicles of the Avatar — Creation of chapter pages of the novels and the updating/creation of pages ", 'for people, locations, creatures, and events that are dealt within the novels. Before starting to edit, make sure to give our Avatar Wiki:Manual ', 'of Style and our Avatar Wiki:S.O.S. editing guide a lookover. Discussions ActivityWho would win in a fightBastion2.0a minute agoWho has the best ', 'bending masteryBastion2.014 minutes agoWho’s the strongest earthbender in the verse?Bastion2.016 minutes agoPlot holes and problems in the finale', 'IcedTofficialan hour agoWho’s the most agile?IcedTofficial2 hours ago Advertisement Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Fol', 'low Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Do Not ', 'Sell My Personal Information Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you', ' and never miss a beat. Avatar Wiki is a FANDOM TV Community. View Mobile Site Search this wikiSearch all wikisSomething went wrongDismissSomethi', 'ng went wrongDismissDo Not Sell My Personal InformationWhen you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The i', 'nformation collected might relate to you, your preferences or your device, and is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to pr', 'ovide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the ', 'site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings to find out more and change our default settings according t', 'o your preference. You cannot opt-out of our First Party Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed in order to ensure the proper functionin', 'g of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, to redirect you when you log out, ', 'etc.). For more information about the First and Third Party Cookies used please follow this link.Allow All Manage Consent PreferencesStrictly Nec', 'essary CookiesAlways ActiveThese cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually on', 'ly set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling', ' in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do no', 't store any personally identifiable information.Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functi', 'onality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow the', 'se cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly.Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count v', 'isits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popu', 'lar and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow t', 'hese cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance.Targeting Cookies Targeting Cookies', ' These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners. They may be used by those companies to build a profile of your interests ', 'and show you relevant adverts on other sites. They do not store directly personal information, but are based on uniquely identifying your browser', ' and internet device. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising.Social Media Cookies Social Media Cookies ', 'These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and', ' networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content ', 'and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools.Back Bu', 'ttonCookie List Search IconFilter IconClear checkbox label labelApply CancelConsent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkb', 'ox label label Confirm My Choices']